# MasterMind-BE

### Description
- This project holds the backend project to the mastermind game.
  [you can see the mastermind front end here.](https://github.com/maltezc/MasterMind-FE) The routes on the main branch 
  can create and get games as well as attempts. The routes in the #38 branch are in progress but are aiming to include 
  create and get routes for User. The backend routes use sql-alchemy as an ORM to handle the relationships between the
  tables `GAME` and `ATTEMPT`. A game object is created and then as attempts are made to guess the random value
  generated by the `Integer Generator API`, the attempts are tied to the game. Those attempts that store the number 
  guessed and the response that was given when the attempt was made are then used to show the hints in the Guess History
  along with the attempts remaining counter.
  
- ### Future Improvements
- ~~Add support to give hints~~
- ~~Add a configurable “difficulty level” and adjust the number of numbers that are used~~
- Extend to multi-player - IN PROGRESS
  - Building out backend features. See backend branch `38-add-multi-player-functionality `
  - prior to creating a new game, Users could sign up and then begin a new game with their names. During the game, 
  - turns would exchange between the 2. 
- Keep track of scores
- Add a timer for the entire game, or each guess attempts
- Anything else that you come up with to make the game more fun/interesting that
demonstrates your backend potential!
- write tests


### how to run: 
1) Clone repo
   1) `git clone https://github.com/maltezc/MasterMind-BE.git`
2) Create psql database: `mastermind_be`
   1) `CREATE DATABASE mastermind_be;`
3) Set up virtualenv inside inner mastermind_be folder
4) Set Env variables: 
   - SECRET_KEY=anything_you_want
   - DATABASE_URL=postgresql:///mastermind_be
   - FLASK_APP=mastermind_be
5) Install Setup Tools
   1) `pip install -U pip setuptools`
6) Install requirements.txt: 
   1) `pip3 install -r requirements.txt `
7) Run `flask --app mastermind_be run` in outer mastermind_be

### For latest in-progress work - adding multilayer functionality: 
   - `git fetch`
   - `git checkout 38-add-multi-player-functionality `

### Insomnia Routes
   - You can import insomnia routes from file: `Mastermind_Insomnia_Routes.json`
   

### Bug Journal
- Working with new BluePrint version and setting up.
- Leading 0s issue: example - DB number_to_guess showing 373 instead of 0372. This happened because the DB type was set 
  to int instead of a string value.
- Always install CORS and include CORS(app) in your `__init__.py`
- Always check the network tab in chrome when a request fails.
- 

### Refresh / New Topics
- Static methods vs class methods
- New Blueprint Version


